<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="how_to_install_cryptoguard">
    <title>How to install CryptoGuard</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>To install CryptoGuard for Linux, Mac or Windows simply download the latest version
                from our <xref href="https://www.exodus.com/" format="html" scope="external"
                    >website</xref></p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <stepsection>
                <p><b>Windows</b></p>
                <p>For Windows users, you can click the installer after downloading and it will automatically install the application to your desktop.
                    It should only take a few seconds to install, and you will be all set to get started.</p>
                <note type="tip">CryptoGuard will only run on 64-bit systems. Make sure to check your operating system is compatible.</note>
                
                <p><b>MacOS</b></p>
                <p>You can click the installer after downloading, and you will be prompted to drag the application into the Applications folder.
                    In just a few seconds, your wallet will be installed and ready to run.</p>
                
                <p><b>Linux</b></p>
                <p>
                    If you're using a Debian-based distribution like Ubuntu, Linux Mint etc., you can download a .deb package and install Exodus by opening it.
                    Depending on your desktop environment or distribution, the installation process might look different.
                </p>
                <note>If this doesn't work for your distribution, please download the zip package and use the method below.</note>
            </stepsection>
            
            <step>
                <cmd>Download the CryptoGuard .zip package, then <i><b>unzip</b></i> it.</cmd>
            </step>
            
            <step>
                <cmd>Inside the unzipped file, there will be <i>crypto-guard.desktop</i> file. Double-click it, this will launch CryptoGuard.</cmd>
            </step>
            
            <step>
                <cmd>The <i>crypto-guard.desktop</i> file contains a command that launches
                    CryptoGuard from the current directory. Depending on your security settings, you
                    may receive a pop-up asking you whether you trust this file to be launched.
                    Click <b><i>Trust and launch</i></b> to proceed with the instalation.</cmd>
            </step>
            
        </steps>
        <result>You have successfully installed CryptoGuard!</result>
        
    </taskbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="how_to_exchange_fiat_for_crypto.dita"/>
        <link href="how_to_exchange_assets.dita"/>
        <link href="how_to_send_crypto_outside_cryproguard.dita"/>
    </related-links>
    
</task>
